In this one,
we're going to create a new project.
So we're gonna talk about mutations.
And we're gonna soon discover some
of the shortcomings right now for
working with beta features like
Next.js 13 and server components.
And then we'll discuss different ways
of how we can approach some of those
shortcomings and
what the plan is going forward as far as
like what the team at Next.js and
React are doing to address some of those.
But we'll get there when we get there.
So, let's create a new project.
So let's think about all the things we
need to be able to do a mutation, a post,
or put or delete.
First, we need to be able to
have an API route to hit, so
we have to make an API route which
allows us to interact with the database.
And we have to do API route, because
we have to go over the network to do it
because we can only make a project once
the client has already loaded up and
there's some interaction, so
it's inside of a client component.
So we can't do this in a server component
because how would we tell the server
component when to do the mutation?
It wouldn't know.
Server components load
data before they render.
So we don't have
the appropriate information.
I mean, I guess there's probably a way for
you to make a URL with a query string on
it that you can hit that passes that query
string information to a server component
and the server component
does the mutation there.
But I wouldn't be surprised if somebody
figures out a framework around that.
But we're not gonna do that.
We're gonna keep it classic.
And we're just gonna do
a post request on a client.
So we need an API route.
We need the function on the front
end that calls the API.
And then we need the interaction with
the form that allows you to create
the project.
So we're gonna make all three of those and
we're gonna tie them together.
So the first thing we're gonna do is
let's just create the function that calls
the API that we haven't made yet.
So in our API file in the lib folder,
we'll go there.
And we'll make a new function.
And we'll call this,
we'll call here createNewProject.
And all it really needs is a name.
And I know that because if
I go to my schema project,
let's look at what's required here.
A name is required so as the owner ID.
But we're not gonna ask the user for
their ID,
we're gonna get the ID from the cookie.
So we don't need to ask them for that.
Description is not required, due date is
not required, delete is required what's
got a default, task is not required it'll
be empty array, all these have defaults.
So really, we don't have to
give it a name at very minimal.
So that's what we're gonna do.
So a good name.
That's why I put name there
as the only arguments.
Let's go back to API and
we're just gonna use our fetcher.
We're gonna say url.
Let's say our
url is gonna be for
/api/projects.
All right.
Creating a project, pretty simple.
Nothing crazy there.
The next thing we wanna do is we're gonna
make our API handler in the API folder to
be able to handle the requests from
that function that we just made.
So let's do that.
So we'll go to pages api, make a project.
So that way it's going
to be slash api slash
project exactly what it says here or
export a handler.
Like that.
We'll get our db in here,
we're gonna need some stuff for
validating, so
we'll get our validation stuff in here.
Because remember in our middleware,
anything that goes to api,
our middleware doesn't touch it.
So we have to check for a user in here.
And the reason I did that is because
we're rather check anyway cuz we need
to know who the user is
to scope our queries to.
This is a multi-tenant database, as in
this database has many different users and
we don't want one user
touching someone else's data.
So we have to pretty much make sure all of
our queries are scoped with an ID, a owner
or something like that to make sure that
person A isn't looking at person B data.
So because of that, we were gonna have
to look in the database anyway for
the user and get their ID.
So I might as well just check
the auth while I'm there as well.
So I just did that.
But if you wanted the middleware to also
check for authentication so you don't
have to do it in your api handler,
you can just comment this out right here.
And you don't have to worry about
checking for auth in your handler.
It'll just happen on the middleware,
but I'm not gonna do it.
Okay, so first we're gonna get
the user with the validate,
jwt using rec.cookies
with the cookie name.
So we'll say user, await,
validateJWT with req.cookies.
And using process.env.cookie name.
Need our req and
our response there, there we go.
What we need to do now is
basically go ahead and
create the project with the name and
the owner ID, and
then we'll talk about why we may or
may not send it back.
So I'm just gonna say,
awaits db.project.create
data with a name.body.name,
And then owner ID is user.id.
So right now if we think
about how this is gonna work,
we're gonna put the create projects on
the last open spot of this projects grid.
So, it's always gonna be here.
But let's think about where
these projects come from.
Where do these projects come from?
How do they get on this page, right?
If we go back to the page inside the home.
This look familiar?
So where does that come from,
that come in client side or server side?
Where is that?
>> Server side.
Server side, right?
The projects get fetch server side.
Okay, so let's walk through this.
Just have a thought experiment with me.
If they're coming server side
as in when this page which is
slash home loads up,
that's when the projects are fetched.
And then on the same page
there's a button here that says,
make a new project and
you make a new project.
Where do you put the new project.
Because those old projects were.
What are you saying?
>> Reaload them.
>> Exactly you got to reload.
Because that's what's
fetching the projects.
You're not fetching
the projects on the client.
This is client side,
you would just push it to the array like
I have an array of projects right
here in the state or something.
I'm just gonna push it in here or
if you use react query or stvr,
it will just update the cache or just say,
update the cache of the projects that
already have, it's all client side.
These projects didn't come client side,
they get fetched on server side
which only happens on a render.
So we don't have that ability.
And because we're not using fetch to
actually get this data we can I put
it on an interval, we can't change
its revalidation strategy because
Next.js doesn't know anything about
Prisma so it hasn't tapped into that.
I think they're going to be working
with popular sdk creators to
allow them to tie into the caching and
revalidation strategies that fetch does.
So all of these products in the future
will support Next.js or I'm sorry,
they'll support react eight teens
caching mechanism out the gate but
right now that's not a possibility.
So the only caching we get is on
the route segment based caching.
So basically what I'm saying is
we're gonna create that project and
it's not gonna show up on the page.
And there's really no good way
to do it other than reloading.
And in fact, if you go look at
Next.js's beta documentation,
it tells you to do just that.
So you can see here, they're fetching,
they're creating like a new to do or
updating it or whatever.
And then they have to refresh
the router here because all the other
to does are coming from server side.
But in order to do that, you have to
turn your page into a client page or
whatever component you're in.
I'm not doing that.
I'm not using a client
page just to do that.
So we can talk about different
ways you might wanna do it but
really, at the end of the day,
the only way to do it is to refresh.
There's probably some hacky ways around it
using the url because if you think about
it, the only thing the server's gonna
have access to is the only state that
I can have access to the url are a cookie.
So I'm not gonna put it in
a cookie that seems weird.
So you could probably do some url hacking
with crazy strings to get this to work.
But for now, that's not the case.
So basically the rule of thumb
would be if there's some data
on a page which needs to be updated
because a mutation can happen to it,
that data needs to be fetched client side,
it can't be fetched server side.
Right?
That usually includes lists that can be
added to or removed from because those
things needs to be updated immediately.
So if I have a list of tasks and
I click done and it needs to go away,
that probably needs to happen client-side.
If I have a list of tasks where
I want to create a new one and
I got to add a new one to the list,
that probably has to happen client-side.
Otherwise, you got to do
what they're recommending,
which is just refresh the router.
But the page still has to be
client-side for that to happen.
So pretty much client-side for anything
that needs to have instant updates for
mutations.
>> The only other thing I can think of
is if you have some kind of reactive
front end using probably some
of the library or sockets or
something they just tell the front end.
>> Yeah, so socket is another one.
So frameworks like elixirs,
live view I think that's what it's called.
That's what it does.
It uses sockets to pipe the data over.
So maybe somebody might do something
like that with Next.js but
that also is because they have
stayed on the on the server side but
maybe someone can use that mechanism not
just for state but just for updates.
Because I can definitely see that
that being a thing where you just
feed in the updates there.
But I don't know how that would work.
There would still have to be some type of
client because none of the JavaScript for
this because like the subscription
code that you would write for
those WebSockets would
have to be on the client.
And none of this code
gets sent to the client.
So at the end of day,
you got to put something on the client,
whether it's a web socket or
your data fetching, so I don't know.
Curiously what that is
they're working on it.
According to the docs, they are working
on this, they acknowledge it.
Or the team is working on a new RFC For
mutating data in Next.js.
This rfc has not been published yet.
For now,
we recommend following this pattern.
So, just remember that.
We're not gonna be thinking about it,
just wanted to bring that up.
Back to our api,
we just need to make sure we respond
here otherwise it's just gonna hang.
And because we're not gonna use
anything from this response,
we can just put whatever we want.
Cool.